---
title: "The Joys of Cycling"
summary: "Cycling is full of great moments."
tags: ["sarcasm", "cycling", "blog"]
date: 2021-07-30T10:24:03+02:00
type: "post"
---
Cycling is full of great moments. Don't you love it when:

- **The wind turns.**  You ride in one direction for an hour or two. The terrain is rather flat, and a strong headwind wrecks your average speed and mental game. Even minor descents require an effort, and the sole thing on your mind is the way back home. Finally, you reach the halfway point, just to see the wind turning, and the vicious circle continues.
- **You get a puncture.** Imagine a warm and sunny day. You went for a ride around the three-hour mark and are on the way back home. Your water reserves slowly drain as you get closer to the finish line. It was a great ride, but suddenly your momentum slows down. It gets harder and harder to pedal as you come to an abrupt halt. You inspect the tire and pull out the biggest, rustiest nail you've ever seen. It doesn't bother you too much. You're not [reckless](https://www.strava.com/activities/4277969956) anymore and carry a spare tube and pump. You change the tire and start inflating, but the pressure just won't go up. While you rage about the defective spare tire and swear to never buy from that manufacturer again, you remember the small glueless patches kit the lady at the bicycle store recommended. You search for it in the saddlebag, but it must have fallen out at some point. You barely make it home that day because a local was kind enough to give you some patches.
- **You have to deal with idiots.** These heartwarming moments happen way too frequently. You are done with work and on your way back home. A woman dives next to you in her SUV, gives you barely enough space to stay on the road, and yells at you. All while there is oncoming traffic. The amount of rage and abuse directed at road cyclists is beyond my comprehension. Then there are other cyclists, mostly elderly people on e-bikes, and pedestrians who randomly change lanes without looking back. You learn to anticipate those, but they'll do their best to surprise you.
- **You run over a badger.** It's a clear evening in November, and you decide to go for a  post-work ride. Not that the time of day would matter much anyway during winter. You ride to a local lake and lap it a few times. On your way back home, you follow a bike path next to the road. Suddenly a badger crosses the road and enters the bike path right in front of you. There's no time to brake and no space to evade. You two crash into each other, and while lying on the floor for a few seconds, you remember why you wear a helmet.
- **You almost get murdered.** The sun has set, and the darkness slowly covers the land. You turn on the lights on your bike and head back home. Imagine a road with three lanes: the oncoming traffic on the left, the left-turn lane in the middle, and the one to go straight on the right. You want to turn left, choose the according lane, and do a shoulder view right before turning. The latter has become a habit because you experienced way too many idiots on the road. You slam the breaks and barely avoid getting hit by the car, which overtakes you on the left instead of passing on the right like a sane human being.
